Now let's take a look at the messaging protocols in the marketplace.
Let's first start by the basic properties the general observations of messaging protocols.
So messaging protocols are designed with messaging in mind.
Here is the emphasis on messaging.
It's just because the messaging protocols are basically two ways of transferring messages in any form
and any kind through the networks devices over the Internet and simply everywhere.
So there are three of them which are like most widely use because there are basically hundreds of protocols
out there that are known or unknown but three of them are most widely used and these three protocols
are stomp.
MQ T.T. and am Cupie.
So let's get started with STOMP and what it has to offer so stump is basically simple text oriented
messaging protocol.
It is basically designed for exchanging simple text messages around and stom provides an inner operable
format so the clients that use Tom can communicate with his message broker to provide easy and widespread
messaging interoperability among many languages platforms and brokers.
So what this basically says that you can simply use anywhere with a proper client implementation
stomp is where it's simple and easy to implement.
It is almost like the H.T. to be design in mind stump does not deal with concepts like queues and topics.
It basically uses a sense semantic with a destination string for where in a message to deliver.
So you don't have to deal with things like queues topics or exchange with calls with stamp.
You can just simply use a sense semantic for any kind of string any kind of data that you want deliver
to the other clients.
So you just use a sense of and then you can just deliver your message to the destination part.
However the receiver can implement their own cues topics and exchange implementations.
So it's all up to you to decide on whatever you want to do with STOMP.
You can either choose to use the basic way send semantic way with stop or you can't even implement your
queue's topics and Xchange consumers of messages subscribe to these destinations.
So it's basically like yours is sending a message to some destination and that destination is being
subscribed by other clients of Stomp.
So they can just received the message when it arrives.
It is simple as that.
For more information on stamp and how it works and how to implement it you can visit the stamped dot
the top Daddy-O web page for more information.
Next up is MQ T.T. MQ is basically the acronym for message queue telemetry transport MQ duty he is basically
designed for machine to machine or Internet of Things.
Connectivity protocol that was the main use case for the design of this protocol.
MQ duty is highly standardized because it's being developed for like years until now and it is being
backed by the industrial giants
and futurity provides a simple push and subscribe messaging.
So you just push a message and you just subscribe to the endpoint of that message and then you can just
simply receive the message.
Simple as that.
MQ TS specifically designed for rissoles constraint devices and low bandwidth high latency networks
such as dial up lines and satellite links.
So what do we mean by that is you have a very old very resource constraint device that you want to connect
to the Internet or just want to send some messages and maybe even receive them.
So you can use MQ T.T. protocol because it's a very low bandwidth oriented technology so that you can
just simply use message exchanges with other devices with that very old device of yours.
MQ duty is a full featured enterprise messaging and we're lightweight ideal for mobile and IO t so behind
its simplicity you can use any kind of DeWyze mostly for resource cost read all and low with the Wise's
but it has the all the enterprise messaging capabilities and because it's very lightweight it is ideal
for mobile and I wrote in other things communications so included is in the back since it's designed
by the industry giants and being developed for years.
It supports thousands of concurrent DeWyze connections so you can just plug a factory plug a whole industry
with MQ and start communicating instantly MQ Tuti has some compact binary packets.
So there are no message properties no matter data and all the headers with the message are compressed.
That's basically where the light lightweight comes from.
So the famous technologies of AWOS which is Io T and Greengrass which is the edge computing solution
from Amazon are basically designed around MQ T.T. because of its simplicity and because it allows both
old and new devices to be connected already MQ tity all together.
So let's move on to AM Cupie which is our product all that we're going to focus on MQ is basically advents
message protocol.
This is the acronym and Cupie is highly reliable and interoperable.
What do we mean by that.
You can just use AMD Cupie in any environment from desktops to Mobile to IO t simply everything and
Cupie solutions from different vendors does work.
Which is where other protocols failed.
So let's just think of an example right now some X company doing up a solution using Amcu protocol specifications
and some other why Company developed.
Also another implementation of AMD Cupie.
So when we try to communicate these clients to follow up using x and y companies implementations it
just simply works.
This is the beauty of AMD Cupie and this gives you the idea WHY is so popular.
So it is highly standardized of course.
This is just the basic idea behind a protocol of course and it provides a wide range of features related
to messaging it has reliable queuing topic Beys publish and subscribe messaging which almost under every
protocol has it as flexible routing transaction.
And of course security.
So let's give an example to JPMorgan the giant financial company is processing billions of messages
a day with AMD Cupie the number billions is the key here.
And you can even go higher than this and in the Amcu B.S. We're going to discover much more about the
AMD Cupie and the benefits and the architecture behind it.
So I'll see on the next video.